<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../md-framework.css">

# OOP
<div class="obj"> 
<p class="title">OBJECTIVES</p>

    + [ ] Make sure students understood the basic concepts of OOP <br>

    + [ ] Go over 4 pillars of OOP  (Could be afternoon lecture) <br>

    + [ ] Get students to collaborate more with each other so that they build the habit of helping each other and verbalize what they have learned <br>

    + [ ] Get students to start thinking about how they can design Classes for things they would be creating in the future, without getting tied to syntaxes. <br>
</div>
<br>

## What is OOP -> object Oriented Programming
- [ ] [classes](#classes)
- [ ] [attributes and methods](#attributes-and-methods)
- [ ] [constructor](#constructor)
- [ ] [instances](#instances)
- [ ] [self](#self)
- [ ] [chaining](#chaining)
- [ ] [inheritance](#inheritance)

<span class="highlight-yellow">What is it?</span> A style of writing code that removed the *procedural programing* aspect of coding. Procedural programing: code runs from top to bottom, left to right. 

### Classes
follow the guidlines of the building the class, other than that there is no real right or wrong way. 

- blueprint/guide to "building" a thing
- A structur of attributes and methods
- class name is PascalCase
    - first letter caps
    - every word first letter caps
    - no spaces
    
### Attributes and Methods
1. Attributes
    things that describe the class. 

1. Methods - functions
    Actions of a class
    - adding a method inside a class is as simple as indenting once inside that class and continuing to write the method like normal. 
    

### Inheritance
where one class inherites attributes from another class. 

example: 
- mammals to humans and whales
- employees to teacher and administrator

recognize when a class is inheriting from something else
class something(object) -> the object means it is inheriting from something else

### Instances
if a class is a blueprint of a thing then we should be able to build that thing, right? 

if not then what good would the blueprint be? when we create that thing we create an instance of it? 

but that doesn't mean the blueprint is no longer useable, right? We should be able to use it over and over to build many of the things the blueprint represents. 

### Contructors
1. magic methods
    - Dunder init ie: _ _init_ _()
        - This allows us to create a new instance of this class. 
        - <span class="highlight-yellow">Demo</span> Show them how to add attributes to the constructor function


### Self
Self is a representation to the specific instance of that class. 
- allow us to reference the instance we are interacting with
- must have "self" as the first param inside a method. 


### Chaining
all methods return something, whether implicit or explicit. 

- <span class="highlight-yellow">Demo</span> show the print of a method that does not have a return statement and show that it returns **"none"**. 
- further chain another method onto the print statement. it will return an **attribute error** because NONE does not have that attribute. 
- return self