<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../md-framework.css">

# Intro to flask

## virtual invironment
1. install pipenv
    ```
    pip install pipenv
    OR
    pip3 install pipenv
    ```
    This gives us the ability to create a virtual env but now we actually need to do it.     
1. navigate to the folder you want your project to be in. 
1. type this into the command line after you are in your desired location
    ```
    pipenv install flask
    ```
    - If You might run into problems then you need to try 
    ```
    python -m pipenv pipenv install flask
    or
    python3 -m pipenv pipenv install flask
    ```
    - This should also launch the virtenv at the same time. however, if it doesn't then you can start it by saying 
    ```
    pipenv shell
    ```
1. Deactivating flask
    ```
    exit
    ```

## Hello Flask
1. Now that we have our virtual env up and running with flask, let's create a server.py file!
1. Stay in the folder that you have your virtual env at and open up vscode or in the terminal you can type "touch server.py" this will create your file for you, then open up vscode in that file location.
    - if the students don't know about "code ." then this is a good time to show them. 
1. inside the server.py file we need to build out the code. 
    - Walk through this code explaining lightly what each line is doing. 
    ```python
    from flask import Flask  # Import Flask to allow us to create our app
    app = Flask(__name__)    # Create a new instance of the Flask class called "app"
    
    @app.route('/')          # The "@" decorator associates this route with the function immediately following
    def hello_world():
        return 'Hello World!'  # Return the string 'Hello World!' as a response


    if __name__=="__main__":   # Ensure this file is being run directly and not from a different module    
        app.run(debug=True)    # Run the app in debug mode
    ```
    - This is a good point to talk again about setting up a checklist with boiler plate code which you can copy and paste into your project. 
1. make the point: to keep the if statement at the bottom of the file of code. 
1. run the server.py file from the terminal and show the class that you have just created your first website thing...! yeah! **LEVEL UP!**

<span class="highlight-yellow">Reiterate</span>

1. Imported Flask class
1. Made and instance of the Flask class and called it "app"
1. Used the decorator "@" to create a rule for routing
1. Ran the server.py file

## Routes
### parts of a route
1. HTTP method
    - This is in what fasion the data is traveling from the frontend to the backend. 
    - GET - data gets passed through the URL
    - POST - data is more secure
    - Note: you can also think of this as sending mail in the mail verses putting that mail in a lockbox and sending the lockbox. 
1. URL
    explain what the URL is and where it is located. 

### Setting up a route
1. We need the decorator which targets the app.route() function. 
    - this takes in one argument which is the dataType of string. <span class="important">!Important!</span> question the students on the dataType. 
1. create the function that that route will target. 
    - return "success" just to show that it workd
1. take it to the next level and throw in a variable
    - <span class="important">!Important!</span> make a point to the class that the way the variable is inside the route is unique to the route. 
    - also point out that you need to pass in the variable into the function. <span class="highlight-yellow">Could be a good question for the class</span>

## Rendering Views
1. Must import the render_template function from flask
1. create a templates folder with a index.html file inside
    - make the point to keep the file name lower case "templates" and plural. 
    - also quickly populate the html file
1. use the render function to display the index.html page
1. create another route leading to another html page just to show them what multiple routes look like. 

## Template Engines
1. talk about how we can write logic code on the backend but the frontend is pretty static. What if we could change that without the use of javaScript?
1. introduce templating language. 
    <br>**Steps to take to use templating language**
    1. first we must pass some data from the backend/server.py file to the frontend/html file. 
        - we do this by passing the data as arguments into the render_template() function AFTER the html file name. 
        ```python
        return render_template("index.html", var1=var1, var2=var2)
        ```
    1. Now that we have passed some information to the frontend we can do something with it. 
1. Templating tags structure.
    - {%%} - use for for loops and if statements
    - {{}} - use for calling variables out

## Static files

## Post Requests