<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../md-framework.css">

# Afternoon session

## Static files
<span class="question">What does static mean? what do you think a static file is</span>

1. talk about how css and js files don't really change a whole lot if at all when the website if fully developed. 
1. create a static folder <span class="important">!Important!</span> Remind them that this file also must be named exact. 
1. inside the static folder create a css folder -> style.css file and js folder -> script.js file. 
1. link the html file to the static files 
    ```HTML
    <!-- based on the folder structure on the right -->
    <!-- linking a css style sheet -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="{{ url_for('static', filename='css/my_style.css') }}">
    <!-- linking a javascript file -->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="{{ url_for('static', filename='js/my_script.js') }}"></script>
    ```

## Post Requests
we can now send data to the html page but how do we send data back? <span class="question">Can anybody guess?</span>
<span class="answer">POST request!</span>
### POST request through forms

1. in HTML file we create a form
    - make note on action and method
        - action: This is the route that will process the form (not the one that shows the form--that's "/"). We'll set this up shortly.
        - Our options are GET and POST; most likely, we'll want this to be a POST request (but if you don't set it, the default is GET)
            - Make the connection back to the morning session where we talked about URLs and Methods
            - also make note that this method and the method we use inside classes are not the same thing even though they share the same name. 
1. we fill out our form
    - input elements 
        - These are the parts of the form that actually gather data from the user. Check here for type options. Also check here for other form elements like select (dropdowns) and textarea. Each element should have a unique value for its name attribute. 
    - with an submit btn
1. back in our server.py file we add to the route decorator a "methods=['POST]" as a parameter. 
1. must import request into the server.py file 
1. this allows us to get that data inside the function by using 
    ```py
    request.form['item_name']
    ```
<span class="question">Ask the students what data type they think the request.form is? </span>

1. Lastly make not that anything that comes throught the request.form comes in as a string regardless of what you specify it when you create your form element. So they will have to type cast that data to get the right dataType.

## Choose your own adventure activity!
