<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../md-framework.css">

# Flask Fundamentals 2

1. [POST Form Submission](#)
1. [Redirecting](#)
1. [Session](#)
1. [Hidden Inputs](#)

<hr>

## Post Form Submission

<div class="obj"> 
<p class="title">OBJECTIVES</p>
    <ol>
        <li>What is the purpose of the HTML Form?</li>
        <li>What is the action?</li>
        <li>What is the method?</li>
        <li>How to allow POST Requests in flask</li>
    </ol>
</div>
<br>

<div class="question">What is a form? what is the purpose?</div>

<div class="answer">To allow the end user to send data to the "server" side of the software. </div>

<div class="question">When would you want to send data to the server?</div>

### Example of what a FORM element looks like

```HTML
    <form action='/users' method='post'>
    Name: <input type='text' name='name'>
    Email: <input type='text' name='email'>
    <input type='submit' value='create user'>
```

IMPORTANT parts

1. action
1. method
1. elements
1. submit button

## Redirecting

<div class="obj"> 
<p class="title">OBJECTIVES</p>
    <ol>
        <li>What is a redirect?</li>
        <li>Why is it important?</li>
    </ol>
</div>
<br>

<div class="question">What do you think is a redirect?</div>

<div class="answer">It takes us from one method (function | URL point) to another</div>

<div class="question">Why would it be important to redirect?</div>

<div class="answer">When we submit a POST request and IF we render the HTML page within the same function then if someone clicks the refresh btn the program will process all the data that is in the method a second time.</div>

<div class="question">What might this lead to?</div>

## Session

<div class="obj"> 
<p class="title">OBJECTIVES</p>
    <ol>
        <li>Understand what session is</li>
        <li>Understand why we need persistence</li>
    </ol>
</div>
<br>

### Session Def

allows us to save data to the client side of the application in order for us to be able to call on that data at a later point in time. The data that is saved is specific to that end user (client).

<div class="question">What are some reasons for the user of Session?</div>

<div class="answer">
    <ul>
        <li>save the user who is logged in</li>
        <li>a list of links a user has previously visited</li>
    </ul>
</div>

### Cookies:

You've probably heard of the term cookies before. Some frameworks, including Flask, use cookies to store session data. Flask uses secure hashing of session data to send a packet of information from server to client. This packet is known as a cookie. Once a client's browser has received this cookie, it writes the information contained in it to a small file on their hard drive.
<span class="important">!Important!</span> While hashed, cookies are not incredibly secure, so don't save anything private in them.

### The setup of session in Flask

1. Must import session
    ```python
    from flask import Flask, render_template, request, redirect, session
    ```
1. Must give session a _secret key_
    ```python
    app = Flask(__name__)
    app.secret_key = 'keep it secret, keep it safe' # set a secret key for security purposes
    ```
1. Write data to session

    ```python
    session['username'] = request.form['name']
    ```

    <div class="question">What does session look like to you? What data type? (string, list...etc)</div>

    - This has two parts
        - calling session by naming the key you wish to call. (if the key doesn't exist then it will create it)
        - The data that you want to be in the session key.
        - <span class="important">!Important!</span> Remember that this is just a dictionary. It is a key and value pair.

1. Get data from session
    - we can just call it by saying
    ```python
    some_var = session['key'] # remember that the key is the name you named it above
    ```
1. We can call session directly from our templates HTML file.
    - double curly brackets
    - session['key']
    ```HTML
    {{session['key']}}
    ```

## Hidden Inputs

<div class="obj"> 
<p class="title">OBJECTIVES</p>
    <ol>
        <li>Understand what hidden inputs are</li>
        <li>Understand why they are useful</li>
        <li>Understand how to add them to a form</li>
    </ol>
</div>
<br>

1. types of form elements
    - input, number, select, password, email, hidden
1. a hidden input must have both a name attribute and a value attribute
    - REMEMBER that the form gets passed over to the server side as a dictionary with key/value pairs.
    - the name becomes the key and the value becomes the value
    ```HTML
    <form>
        <input type="hidden" name="the_key" value="the_value">
    </form>
    ```

<div class="question">there is another way to pass information from the HTML page to the Server side code. Can anybody tell me what it is?</div>
