<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../md-framework.css">

# Algos

1. Rotate string

# one to many

<div class="answer">I am going to run through the concepts with you up front, feel free to take notes. Then I will demo this to you running through the concepts a 2nd time. This is for repetition. </div>

<div class="question">What is a relationship?</div>

<div class="answer">A connection between two things. Kind of like a bridge.</div>

one husband, one wife

-   Someone can look me up directly
-   Someone can ask about the husband of my wife

both questions lead to me. and visa versa works with asking about my wife.
This is a one to one relationship. However, most likely we are not going to be using a one to one relationship.

Comes down to a question of how do you want to make it. A lot of these relationships can go either way. It is like when you want something you can always find a way to "justify" it if you think hard enough.

<div class="question">Anybody can give an example of a 1 to many relationship? based off the name?</div>

-   son/daughter to bio father/mother
-   fingers to a hand
-   numbers to a card (playing cards)

### How to link one object to another in DJANGO

<div class="question">Does anybody know the model field that we use to build a relationship between to models?</div>

When we create a model and give it an attribute that will connect to another model it is called a **foreignKey**.

-   What does a "models.CharField(max_length=255)" take when you add data to that attribute?

-   What does a "models.dateTimeField()" take when you add data to that attribute?

-   <span class="important">!Important!</span> What does a "models.foreignKey()" take when you add data to that attribute?

<div class="answer">It takes the actual instance of that object. Let that sink in.</div>

person with many phones

1. make a person instance of tyler
1. begin the process of making an instance of a phone (this happens at the point of sale) Because the phone is "created" at the point of sale then the phone must belong to somebody. <span class="important">!Important!</span> a ForeignKey is **REQUIRED** at the point of creation. (This is not always the case with relationships.)
1. Hold on to the instance of a person tyler with the variable tyler
1. When creating the instance of the phone for the "owner" aspect we will place the variable tyler as the input (**because** remember that a foreignKey takes a input of another object.)

### Parts of a ForeignKey

foreignKey take 3 parameters

1. the model you are going to ref
1. then name you are going to attach to that ref
1. what happens when you delete the ref you attach it to?

<div class="answer">**example**: kitchen with orders. </div>

## Reverse Lookup

Lets look at the parts of the foreignKey again.

1. reference
1. name
1. what happens when you delete the reference

the name of the reference is **tricky** pay attention here. When you add the name of the reference it secretly places that name on the model that you are referencing. You can't see it but it is there. That is why when we are learning we like to add the name in a comment to remind us that there is actually a hidden attribute there that we can't see.

This goes back to my analogy with my wife and I. Because we have a relationship together there is apart of my model that is linked with hers.

You can also think of foreignKeys as bridges or portals from one model to another. Because my wife has a foreignKey of "husband" that has a link to me, if someone wanted to look me up they could look me up directly or they could ask my wife "who is your husband" or more specifically "what is your husbands name?"

If you have one end of the relationship you can call the other end of the relationship and **ALL** the attributes that go along with that relationship through the first relationship.

## Example Time
