<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../md-framework.css">
# MySQL Queriers

<div class="obj"> 
<p class="title">OBJECTIVES</p>
    <ol>
        <li>Understand CRUD queries</li>
        <li>Understand Forward engineer process</li>
    </ol>
</div>
<br>

INDEX

1. [SQL](#SQL)
1. [Import](#Import)
1. [SELECT](#SELECT)
1. [INSERT](#INSERT)
1. [UPDATE](#UPDATE)
1. [DELETE](#DELETE)
1. [Functions](#Functions)
1. [Joins](#Joins)
1. [Left Join](#Left-Join)
1. [export](#export)
1. [Forward Engineer](#Forward-Engineer)


## SQL

## CRUD
1. C - create
1. R - read / retrieve
1. U - update
1. D - delete


1. Forward engineer -> ERD to database
1. Reverse engineer -> database to ERD

steps
1. save the sql code that is generated in case something happens to your database you can rerun the code and create it again. 


## Create
must select the db you want to use
1. you can double click on the db on the side
1. at the top you can type use db_name;
    - <span class="important">!Important!</span> must have the ";" at the end!!!

Key word: **"INSERT INTO"**
```sql
INSERT INTO db_name.table_name (col_name) VALUES ("desired_value");
```
two ways to run the code
1. normal lightning runs everything
1. lightning with cursor icon runs only the line you are on. 


## Read / Retrieve
```sql
SELECT column_name FROM table_name;
OR
SELECT * FROM table_name;
```
<span class="highlight-yellow">The * means ALL columns</span>


## update
```sql
UPDATE table_name SET column_name_1 = new_value_1, column_name_2 = new_value_2;
```
<span class="important">!Important!</span> Columns are not unique to the rows. so if the above command was ran it would update every column on every row in the table.

```sql
UPDATE table_name SET column_name_1 = new_value_1, column_name_2 = new_value_2 WHERE condition (column_name = value)
```
condition = most likely the unique id

***NOTE***: if we were to have just NOW() on our updated_at column then any time we wanted to update our db we would have to remember to also update our updated_at column as well. Otherwise it would never get updated. However because we used the *NOW() ON UPDATE NOW()* command we don't have to target that column when we make changes because it will do that for us. 


## delete
```sql
DELETE FROM table_name WHERE condition
```

**retouch** on id and the fact that they will never be repeated. 

<div class="watchout-bg">
    <span class="watchout-text">Look at the LP and at the assignments.</span>
</div>


we will soon be able to run these commands in our flask assignment and use flask to interact with our db. 