<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../md-framework.css">

# Python Day one Intro

## About me

1. Navy
1. Indo
1. Teaching
1. Coding history

Ice Breakers
1. Two truths and a lie
1. Simple introduction of self, fav color, fav food

## overview
[Overview Page](#https://login.codingdojo.com/m/172/7208/51936)

1. Stress level overview with Theme and concepts
    ### Stack Orientation
    [Orientation / learn Platform](https://login.codingdojo.com/m/172/7941/57094)

    ### Schedule overview
    1. Python and OOP
    1. Flask and MySQL
    1. Belt
    1. AJAX
    1. Projects

## Course Completion
### Ultimate Goal: Earning a Belt
Everyone's goal by the end of this stack is to ***earn a belt*** and have a **project completed**.  The required assignments are designed to prepare you to earn a Red Belt.  In some of the assignments you will see bonus challenges.  These will help prepare you to earn a Black Belt, the highest honor.  At the end of each day, be sure to complete all of the required assignments.  If you still have time, work on the bonus features.  The optional assignments are designed for those who are ahead during the bootcamp and for you to come back after completing the bootcamp to continue to level up in Python.

### Reading vs. Doing
While the *reading is important*, it is best utilized as supplemental to the actual doing of assignments. <span class="highlight-yellow">Learn By Doing!</span> **Don't spend too much time trying to understand all the reading prior to starting an assignment.** Instead, read through the content for a few minutes to get an idea of what you'll be learning and to have a reference to come back to. Definitely code along if there are code blocks, to start seeing the code in action. Then start working through the assignments. <span class="highlight-yellow">And Reference the material constantly</span> We believe in learning by doing and strength through struggle--as you actually work through the assignments, the content will make more sense because you'll have a context for all the jargon and code snippets.

This methodology is probably contrary to the traditional schooling you're used to, but don't be afraid to jump in and make mistakes. That's where the best learning happens!

## Why Python?
[LEARNING PLATFORM PAGE](#https://login.codingdojo.com/m/172/7208/51937)

Parts of web development in this stack
1. Front End
    - HTML
    - CSS
    - Javascript
1. BackEnd
    - Python
    - flask (framework)
1. Database
    - MySQL

<span class="highlight-yellow">So Why Python?</span>

1. Readability - Python's syntax closely **resembles English** with punctuation rules that promote consistent format.
1. Libraries - Python has been around for **more than 20 years**. There are tons and tons of resources and libraries that you can take advantage of. If you can think of a task for which you'd like to use Python there is probably a library out there that a skilled developer made just for that purpose.
1. Community - It helps to ask others about things you're not sure of or problems that you just cannot get around. There is a massive community built around Python development built by people who are enthusiastic about Python and always happy to lend a hand!
1. Scope - Python is effective across a broad range of project types - scientific computing, data analytics, machine learning, game creation, web development, and more!
1. Ease - Python has earned a reputation for being easy to learn due to the simplicity of its syntax. It is now the most popular language taught at top universities for instruction on fundamental and advanced computing concepts
---

Check to make sure that everybody installed python

---
Organization is ***KEY***

<span class="highlight-green">Tip: Don't give your files or folders names with spaces in them!</span>

### python SHELL 
<div class="watchout-bg">
    <span class="watchout-text">This is a little less important at this moment. </span>
</div>
<span class="question">what is the shell?</span>
<span class="answer">The shell is a command line interface we can use to interact with the Python interpreter. Similar to how we were able to use our web browser's console to run JavaScript, the Python shell allows us to run Python code in our terminal. Once activated, we can type some Python code and see the results immediately. Let's try it out by simply typing python in our terminal:</span>

TO ENTER SHELL: in the terminal type python or python3 (mac)

<span class="highlight-green">Notice:</span> **>>>** means you are in the shell

TO EXIT SHELL: exit()

<span class="question">What can we do in the shell?</span>
<span class="answer">It is a place where we can write python. So any python code we can write in the shell.</span>

- Math
- functions
- run python files