<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../md-framework.css">

# Python Day 1 Morning

<div class="obj"> 
<p class="title">OBJECTIVES</p>
    + [ ] Syntax <br>
    + [ ] Numbers <br>
    + [ ] Strings <br>
    + [ ] Lists <br>
    + [ ] Tuples <br>
</div>
<br>

### Python Syntax
1. Python is a indend based language. { } -> tabing in. 
    - Tabing in is not really tabing in. it is really four spaces
    - You can see the difference by turning on whitespaces <span class="important">!Important!</span>
1. What is a code block?
    <span class="question">Does anybody know what is a code block?</span>
    - A code block is a set of lines of code that belong together.
        - def -> functions
        - if, elif, else -> conditionals
        - for, while -> loops
        - class -> classes

    <span class="question">What if I want to "prep" a code block but don't have the code to actually put into it?</span>
    <span class="answer">Pass</span>

<span class="obj_checkoff">:heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark: **Objective Checkoff Time** :heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark:</span>

## Data Types
1. Primitive data types
    - Booleans (T or F)
    - Numbers (integers)
    - Strings (literal text)
1. Composite Types
    - Tuples (immutable)
        ```python
            dog = ('Bruce', 'cocker spaniel', 19, False)
        ```
        - <span class="important">!Important!</span>Notice the "( )"
    - Lists (indicated by the "[]" )
    - Dictionaries (indicated by the "{}")

<span class="highlight-green">Take a ways</span>

1. look at the syntax that marks the data type
1. If you are unsure of what type something is you can do a print(type(24))

### types of numbers
- integer
- float
- complex

### strings
Strings are any sequence of characters (letters, numerals, ~($/}\#, etc.) enclosed in single or double quotes
- set strings into variables and then call those variables

1. Type Casting
    <span class="question">What is type casting?</span>
    <span class="answer">When we convert one data type into another or make sure that it is indeed that data type</span>
    - Can't add two different data types together. 
    - <span class="important">!Important!</span>This is not the case in javaScript. JS does the conversion for you in certain cases.
1. String Interpolation
    <br> We can also inject variables into our strings, which is known as string interpolation. There are a few different ways this can be done.
    - F-String
        ```python
        string_type = "f-string"
        f"this is a {string_type}"
        ```
    - string.format()
        ```python
        string_type = "string.format()"
        "this is a {}".format(string_type)
        ```
    - %-formatting
        ```python
        string_type = "%-formatting"
        "this is a {%s}" % (string_type)
        ```
***The following is a list of commonly used string methods:***

1. string.upper(): returns a copy of the string with all the characters in uppercase.

1. string.lower(): returns a copy of the string with all the characters in lowercase.

1. string.count(substring): returns number of occurrences of substring in string.

1. string.split(char): returns a list of values where string is split at the given 
character. Without a parameter the default split is at every space.

1. string.find(substring): returns the index of the start of the first occurrence of 
substring within string.

1. string.isalnum(): returns boolean depending on whether the string's length is > 0 
and all characters are alphanumeric (letters and numbers only). Strings that 
include spaces and punctuation will return False for this method. Similar methods 
include .isalpha(), .isdigit(), .islower(), .isupper(), and so on. All return 
booleans.

1. string.join(list): returns a string that is all strings within our set (in this 
case a list) concatenated.

1. string.endswith(substring): returns a boolean based upon whether the last 
characters of string match substring.

### Lists
<span class="question">What is a list?</span> 
<span class="answer">a JavaScript array</span>

You can do all the same things with a list as you can do with an array. 
<span class="question">Review: What are some of the key things about lists? and what can you do with them?</span>

- index based
- multiple elements types
- push, pop, etc. -> you can do the same thing with list but the function names has changed. 

***Built in functions***
Some built-in functions for sequences:

- enumerate(sequence) used in a for loop context to return two-item-tuple for each 
item in the list indicating the index followed by the value at that index.

- map(function, sequence) applies the function to every item in the sequence you 
pass in. Returns a list of the results.

- min(sequence) returns the lowest value in a sequence.

- sorted(sequence) returns a sorted sequence
There are a few other useful built-in functions. Find them [here](https://docs.python.org/2/library/functions.html).

***List Built in Methods***

These are specific to lists


The following are some commonly used list methods:

- list.extend(list2) adds all values from a second sequence to the end of the 
original sequence.

- list.pop(index) remove a value at given position. if no parameter is passed, 
defaults to final value in the list.

- list.index(value) returns the index position in a list for the given parameter.

Find them [here](https://www.linuxtopia.org/online_books/programming_books/python_programming/python_ch14s07.html).


<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../md-framework.css">

<div class="watchout-bg">
    <span class="watchout-text">Took care of all of this in the morning lecture.</span>
    <span class="watchout-text">Need to find a way to send them into small groups more often.</span>

</div>

# Python Day 1 Afternoon

<div class="obj"> 
    <p class="title">OBJECTIVES</p>
    + [X] Dictionaries  <br>
    + [X] Conditionals <br>
    + [X] Loops <br>
    + [ ] Methods <br>
    + [ ] Inputs/Outputs <br>
</div>
<br>

## Dictionaries
### What is a Dictionary made of
- created by using { }
- Key value pairs

### Creating a Dictionary
```python
new_dictionary = {}
OR
new_dictionary = {
    "key1" : "Value one",
    "key2" : "Value two",
}
```
### Adding to a Dictionary
```python
new_dictionary['name'] = "value"
new_dictionary['key1'] = "new value for key 1"
```
### Accessing a Dictionary
1. Getting Values
    - layers (onions)

    step 1: call the Dictionary by name
    step 2: use [] -> "I know it is not a list...
    step 3: call the key associated to the value you want to get

1. Accessing nested dictionaries
    
    - new_dictionary['inner_dictionary']['key_for_value']

1. Removing Values
    - pop
        - value_removed = capitals.pop('svk')
    - del
        - del capitals['dnk']

## Conditionals
### if, elif, else
[List of comparison and logic operators](https://login.codingdojo.com/m/172/7209/51953)
## Loops
<span class="question">How did you write a loop in JS?</span>

1. For loops
    - Range
        - parameters: start, stop, increment by
    - natural for loop is like a forEach in JS
    - Looping through strings like you can loop through lists
    - lists
    - dictionaries
1. While loops
    - break condition
    - set up incrementing variable


<span class="obj_checkoff">:heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark: **Objective Checkoff Time** :heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark:</span>

---
---

# Real Afternoon session
### outline
- [X] Pop Quiz
- [X] Making checklist
- [X] using terminal to run code

- Readable code:
    - [X] variable names
    - [X] function names
    - [X] Python naming structure
        - snake case = for most everything
        - CapWords = for classes

- 20 minute rule
- Inputs and outputs

### Pop Quiz
1. How many ways can you see (at this moment) where python is different than JavaScript in it's syntax?
1. What dataTypes did we cover and what are their indicators (what tells you that they are that dataType)?
1. What is the difference between a float and an int?
1. What is an f-string (what does it allow us to do)? and what is it's indicator?
1. Name one thing that is unique to a list?
1. Explain why getting data from a list could be slower than getting data from a dictionary?
1. What is a conditional? How to use them?
1. Explain how 
    ```python
    for key in all_keys:
        print(key)
    ```
    is different from 
    ```python
    for key in range(len(all_keys)):
        print(key)
    ```

## Inputs/Outputs
User inputs are a way of getting the end user's data through the terminal. 

```python
user_input = input("favorite color: ")
print(user_input)
```