<link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../md-framework.css">

<div class="watchout-bg">
    <span class="watchout-text">Took care of all of this in the morning lecture.</span>
    <span class="watchout-text">Need to find a way to send them into small groups more often.</span>

</div>

# Python Day 1 Afternoon

<div class="obj"> 
    <p class="title">OBJECTIVES</p>
    + [X] Dictionaries  <br>
    + [X] Conditionals <br>
    + [X] Loops <br>
    + [ ] Methods <br>
    + [ ] Inputs/Outputs <br>
</div>
<br>

## Dictionaries
### What is a Dictionary made of
- created by using { }
- Key value pairs

### Creating a Dictionary
```python
new_dictionary = {}
OR
new_dictionary = {
    "key1" : "Value one",
    "key2" : "Value two",
}
```
### Adding to a Dictionary
```python
new_dictionary['name'] = "value"
new_dictionary['key1'] = "new value for key 1"
```
### Accessing a Dictionary
1. Getting Values
    - layers (onions)

    step 1: call the Dictionary by name
    step 2: use [] -> "I know it is not a list...
    step 3: call the key associated to the value you want to get

1. Accessing nested dictionaries
    
    - new_dictionary['inner_dictionary']['key_for_value']

1. Removing Values
    - pop
        - value_removed = capitals.pop('svk')
    - del
        - del capitals['dnk']

## Conditionals
### if, elif, else
[List of comparison and logic operators](https://login.codingdojo.com/m/172/7209/51953)
## Loops
<span class="question">How did you write a loop in JS?</span>

1. For loops
    - Range
        - parameters: start, stop, increment by
    - natural for loop is like a forEach in JS
    - Looping through strings like you can loop through lists
    - lists
    - dictionaries
1. While loops
    - break condition
    - set up incrementing variable


<span class="obj_checkoff">:heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark: **Objective Checkoff Time** :heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark::heavy_check_mark:</span>

---
---
# Real Afternoon session
### outline
- [X] Pop Quiz
- [X] Making checklist
- [X] using terminal to run code

- Readable code:
    - [X] variable names
    - [X] function names
    - [X] Python naming structure
        - snake case = for most everything
        - CapWords = for classes

- 20 minute rule
- Inputs and outputs

### Pop Quiz
1. How many ways can you see (at this moment) where python is different than JavaScript in it's syntax?
1. What dataTypes did we cover and what are their indicators (what tells you that they are that dataType)?
1. What is the difference between a float and an int?
1. What is an f-string (what does it allow us to do)? and what is it's indicator?
1. Name one thing that is unique to a list?
1. Explain why getting data from a list could be slower than getting data from a dictionary?
1. What is a conditional? How to use them?
1. Explain how 
    ```python
    for key in all_keys:
        print(key)
    ```
    is different from 
    ```python
    for key in range(len(all_keys)):
        print(key)
    ```

## Inputs/Outputs
User inputs are a way of getting the end user's data through the terminal. 

```python
user_input = input("favorite color: ")
print(user_input)
```